--- Page 489 ---

K
Bussed Field Power Guidelines
Many of the I/O cards use 24 VDC bussed field power to power their devices. These cards
are designed to operate at 21.6 to 26.4 VDC (24 VDC ±10%). To minimize field wiring, you
can connect a power source directly to the I/O interface carrier to provide power to field
devices that are connected to these cards. It is recommended that the power source is a
DeltaV Bulk Power Supply or Legacy Bulk Power Supply. Be sure that the power supply
allows the voltage to the carrier to be within the 21.6 to 26.4 VDC range required for the
cards that use bussed field power. Some I/O cards use a voltage other than 24 VDC and
others do not use bussed field power to power their associated field devices. Refer to the
S-series and CHARMs Hardware Reference manual for information on the DeltaV Bulk Power
Supplies.
Note
The bussed field power connection on the top of the carrier provides power to the field
through the I/O cards only. Extending power from this connection to additional field
devices is not supported or appropriate.
If the system requires redundant bulk power supplies or multiple bulk power supplies for
load sharing, it is recommended that the DeltaV Bulk Power supplies are used in
conjunction with DeltaV Redundancy Modules.
Related information
System Power Guidelines
I/O Cards
K.1
Implementing Bussed Field Power for
Applications using DI and DO Cards
Observe the following guidelines if you implement bussed field power for applications that
use DI and DO cards.
If you use DeltaV discrete input cards (isolated or dry contact) to sense a contact closure in
a field device, use an arc suppression device at the contact. This arc suppression device can
be an R-C snubber or a varistor, as shown in the following figure for isolated discrete
inputs.
Bussed Field Power Guidelines
D800001X312 
April 2021
489

--- Page 490 ---

Figure K-1: Arc Suppression Device Examples for Contact Closure Detection (Isolated
Discrete Input Cards)
The following table lists example R-C values based on the load provided by the input card
and the formulas provided in the Sizing R-C Snubbers topic.
Table K-1: Example R-C Values
Load from Input Card
R Value
C Value
24 VDC
5 kΩ
2.4 nF
120 VAC
60 Ω
0.12 nF
230 VAC
115 Ω
0.01 nF
If you use DeltaV isolated discrete input cards to sense solid state devices such as triacs,
you may need to place some resistance in parallel with the input to avoid false triggering
due to leakage currents. Size the resistor so that the voltage level generated by leakage
current through the switch is less than the upper limit for OFF voltage at the input card.
The resistor wattage must support the following calculation for dissipation when the
switch is ON:
Watts
VxV
R
=
where:
V=voltage
R=resistance
You can use DeltaV dry contact discrete input cards to sense a solid state device only if the
leakage of the switch is less than the upper limit for OFF current of the input card. The
following table lists the upper limit of the OFF current for the DeltaV input cards.
Table K-2: Current Limits for Input Cards 
Input Card Voltage Level
Upper Limit of OFF Current
24 VDC
1 mA
120 VAC
0.56 mA
230 VAC
0.28 mA
Bussed Field Power Guidelines
April 2021
D800001X312
490

--- Page 491 ---

If you use DeltaV AC discrete output cards (high-side or isolated) to drive inductive loads
such as relay coils, it is recommended that the kickback from the coil be suppressed at the
coil with an R-C snubber or a varistor. Figure K-2 is a wiring diagram example for a high-
side discrete output. Sizing for the suppressor is load-dependent; refer to the Sizing R-C
Snubbers topic and to the documentation for the field device or suppressor.
Figure K-2: Examples for Driving Inductive Loads with AC Output Cards (High-Side
Discrete Output)
If you use DC discrete output cards to drive inductive loads such as solenoid valves and
relay coils, it is recommended that the kickback from the inductive load is suppressed at
the device by a parallel reverse-biased diode (such as a 1N4004). The following figure is a
wiring diagram example for a high-side discrete output. Connecting the snubber diode at
the load ensures that the output channel circuitry is protected from the inductive kickback
in all configurations. Additionally, it suppresses the electrical noise that would otherwise
have been generated on the wiring and potentially coupled onto adjacent field wiring.
Figure K-3: Example for Driving Inductive Loads with DC Output Cards (High-Side
Discrete Output)
If your field device has low current requirements, you can connect a loading resistor in
parallel with your load to limit the effect of leakage currents on DeltaV discrete AC output
cards. Size the resistor to provide a total load of 10 mA and to handle the heat dissipation
for this load. For example, a 12 K Ω, 2 W resistor is appropriate for 120 VAC and a 23 K Ω, 3
W resistor is appropriate for 230 VAC.
Bussed Field Power Guidelines
D800001X312 
April 2021
491

--- Page 492 ---

In electrically noisy environments, place one varistor in parallel with the field terminal
blocks at the I/O card and another varistor in parallel with the bussed field power
connection to the carrier. Size the varistor for 20% above the nominal line voltage.
Related information
Sizing R-C Snubbers
K.2
Sizing R-C Snubbers
R-C (resistor-capacitor) snubbers are used to suppress arcing when a contact is opened or
to suppress kickback when a coil is de-energized. Pre-assembled R-C snubbers are
available in a variety of ratings (Quencharc® and RIFA RC-units are two trade names) or
you can assemble R-C snubbers from discrete components. Because the resistor is in series
with the capacitor, the wattage requirements are low (less than 0.25 W).
Use the following calculations to size the R-C snubber that is appropriate for your
application. Always round up to the next value available.
DC Applications
For example, using a 24 VDC source, and driving a 0.5 A load:
AC Applications
 for each 10 V·A of steady state load
For example, using a 120 VAC source and driving a 0.5 A load:
Bussed Field Power Guidelines
April 2021
D800001X312
492

--- Page 493 ---

L
Controller Redundancy
The DeltaV system supports redundant controllers. The following figure shows a simple
system with redundant controllers and a redundant Control Network.
Figure L-1: Redundant Controller Network Example
ScTP Cat. 5(e)
cable maximum
length:
100 m (330 ft)
ScTP Cat. 5(e)
cable maximum
length:
100 m (330 ft)
Workstation
Primary hub
Secondary hub
Controller
Controller
Unshielded
connectors
 LEGEND:
       = Shielded connectors
L.1
Installing a Redundant Controller
Note
A simplex controller cannot be made redundant by using the following steps after VCAT is
enabled.
1. Assign an appropriate redundancy license to the simplex controller you want to
make redundant in DeltaV Explorer.
2. Plug in a second 2-wide carrier to the left of the current 2-wide carrier. Ensure that it
has the correct pins and supports redundancy.
3. Insert the appropriate power supply in the left slot of the left 2-wide carrier and plug
in the power cord to supply power.
4. Insert a controller (the controller type should match what is already in the right 2-
wide carrier) into the right slot of the left 2-wide carrier.
5. The added controller's Power LED should turn on and the Error LED should blink for a
few seconds. Then, all 6 of the LEDs should turn on for about 2 seconds, followed by
the LEDs turning off except for the Power LED, which should always remain on. At
this point, the Standby LED and the two communications LEDs should start to blink
(Standby Controller becomes commissioned). Observe that the LEDs behave as
described; the LEDs are the controller's tell-tales.
6. Download the ProfessionalPLUS workstation in DeltaV Explorer.
Controller Redundancy
D800001X312 
April 2021
493

--- Page 494 ---

7. Download the setup data to the controller. The two communications LEDs should
continue to blink for a few minutes and the Standby LED should turn on solid
(Standby Controller becomes configured). The Standby Controller is now ready to
take over if the Active Controller fails.
L.2
Powering Redundant Controllers
A redundant controller system requires an additional two-wide carrier to support the
additional controller and power supply. The following figure shows a redundant controller
installation.
Figure L-2: Redundant Controller Installation Example
Refer to the preceding image:
• Controller 1 receives 5V and 3.3V power from power supply 1.
• Controller 2 receives 5V and 3.3V power from power supply 2.
• Both power supplies provide 12V, load sharing power to the I/O cards.
For redundant I/O power, ensure that there is enough power for the active controller and
I/O if one power supply fails. If the two power supplies are not capable of providing
redundant power to the controllers and I/O cards, you can install an additional carrier and
power supplies to the left of the controller carrier.
Controller Redundancy
April 2021
D800001X312
494